README.md, before:

# Example of creating a jumphost in OpenStack cPouta
A template on how to create a JumpHost in Openstack with 4 instances behind it.


## Pre-requisites
- Ansible Playbook tested on macOS Ventura and Ubuntu 22.04:  
  - Ansible version 2.15.4
  - Ansible openstack.cloud 2.1.0
  - Python module openstacksdk 1.3.1

For Ubuntu, add the Ansible repo to have the latest version:
```sh
sudo apt-add-repository ppa:ansible/ansible
```

You must have the `openstack.cloud` collection installed: https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/collections/openstack/cloud/index.html  
Type this command:
```sh
ansible-galaxy collection install openstack.cloud
```
and the latest version of `openstacksdk` for Python: https://pypi.org/project/openstacksdk/  
```sh
pip install openstacksdk
```

`ansible.posix` collection is need for `authorized_key` module. Install it by typing this command:  
```sh
ansible-galaxy collection install ansible.posix
```

You must source your project before launching this playbook:  
```sh
source project_xxxxxxx
```

Also, there will be a need to ssh to the newly created instances during the playbook. Create a folder `files` and copy your public key in this folder and add the key with this command:  
```sh
ssh-add path/to/your/private_key
```
For this template, you can create a new key. Just remember to upload it to your cPouta project.  

Create a folder `keys`, add all the public keys you of the users you want to authorize to connect to the different hosts.    
During the playbook, it will read those files and add the public keys to the `authorized_keys` file of the different hosts.


## Custom your playbook
In `group_vars/all.yaml`:
- `number_instances`: You can edit the number of instances you want behind the `jumphost`. In this example, we set to `4`.  
- `jumphost_name` & `instances_name`: You can edit the name of the jumphost and the name of the instances.
- `os_image`: You can edit which Operating System you want to use for the jumphost and the instances. (`openstack images list` to retrieve all images available).
- `user`: By default `ubuntu`. If you want CentOS machines, replace it by `cloud-user`.
- `flavor`: Choose the flavor you want to use (`openstack flavor list` to retrieve all flavors available).
- `key_name`: Either the name of your ssh key that you use to connect to cPouta instances or the name of the newly created key for this deployment. (Don't forget to upload this newly created key in your cPouta project).
- `internal_ips`: Edit the list and secure your instances by allowing only few networks to connect through SSH.


## Running the playbook
Run the playbook by typing this command:  
```sh
ansible-playbook main.yaml
```
It will prompt for the network. Use the command `openstack network list` to retrieve this information. Usually it's the name of your project (`project_xxxx`)

Alternatively, you can use this command for running the playbook:
```sh
ansible-playbook -e network=project_xxxx main.yaml
```


## Cleanup
To clean everything, run this command:  
```sh
ansible-playbook -e network=project_xxxx -e state=absent main.yaml
```

Commit message:

Choose flavor for jumphost and instances

README.md, after:

# Example of creating a jumphost in OpenStack cPouta
A template on how to create a JumpHost in Openstack with 4 instances behind it.


## Pre-requisites
- Ansible Playbook tested on macOS Ventura and Ubuntu 22.04:  
  - Ansible version 2.15.4
  - Ansible openstack.cloud 2.1.0
  - Python module openstacksdk 1.3.1

For Ubuntu, add the Ansible repo to have the latest version:
```sh
sudo apt-add-repository ppa:ansible/ansible
```

You must have the `openstack.cloud` collection installed: https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/collections/openstack/cloud/index.html  
Type this command:
```sh
ansible-galaxy collection install openstack.cloud
```
and the latest version of `openstacksdk` for Python: https://pypi.org/project/openstacksdk/  
```sh
pip install openstacksdk
```

`ansible.posix` collection is need for `authorized_key` module. Install it by typing this command:  
```sh
ansible-galaxy collection install ansible.posix
```

You must source your project before launching this playbook:  
```sh
source project_xxxxxxx
```

Also, there will be a need to ssh to the newly created instances during the playbook. Create a folder `files` and copy your public key in this folder and add the key with this command:  
```sh
ssh-add path/to/your/private_key
```
For this template, you can create a new key. Just remember to upload it to your cPouta project.  

Create a folder `keys`, add all the public keys you of the users you want to authorize to connect to the different hosts.    
During the playbook, it will read those files and add the public keys to the `authorized_keys` file of the different hosts.


## Custom your playbook
In `group_vars/all.yaml`:
- `number_instances`: You can edit the number of instances you want behind the `jumphost`. In this example, we set to `4`.  
- `jumphost_name` & `instances_name`: You can edit the name of the jumphost and the name of the instances.
- `os_image`: You can edit which Operating System you want to use for the jumphost and the instances. (`openstack images list` to retrieve all images available).
- `user`: By default `ubuntu`. If you want CentOS machines, replace it by `cloud-user`.
- `flavor_jumphost`: Choose the flavor you want to use for your jumphost(`openstack flavor list` to retrieve all flavors available).
- `flavor_instances`: Choose the flavor you want to use for your instances(`openstack flavor list` to retrieve all flavors available).
- `key_name`: Either the name of your ssh key that you use to connect to cPouta instances or the name of the newly created key for this deployment. (Don't forget to upload this newly created key in your cPouta project).
- `internal_ips`: Edit the list and secure your instances by allowing only few networks to connect through SSH.


## Running the playbook
Run the playbook by typing this command:  
```sh
ansible-playbook main.yaml
```
It will prompt for the network. Use the command `openstack network list` to retrieve this information. Usually it's the name of your project (`project_xxxx`)

Alternatively, you can use this command for running the playbook:
```sh
ansible-playbook -e network=project_xxxx main.yaml
```


## Cleanup
To clean everything, run this command:  
```sh
ansible-playbook -e network=project_xxxx -e state=absent main.yaml
```
